# FacebookHerTechHackathon

## A Brief History
I participated in this hackathon in 2019. I tried to build an android app using MIT APP inventor. The app was supposed to use Facebook API to get information about users but at the time of finalizig the app, I did'nt got the API access. This is a very begineer approch to a hackathon as I was not aware of most of the tools and technologies and I was rather a newbie in coding. As it was my first ever hackathon, I want to keep it as a learning memory. The app is still working but it a demo app rather than a fully working prototype.

## App Idea Summary
So, the basic purpose of our app is to aware women about the type of area they are crossing by. Considering Problem 1, We will create a collective database of all harassing men in a particular area. Consider an app which allow women to report about a particular person. All they have to do is randomly click his photo and then upload to our app. Then we apply face detection algorithm to create a model of it. Now next time the women goes to that area, she randomly clicks people photo and then our app can give her % of safety. The app can be connected to govt database also. Now assume a women crosses a certain area and she felt harassed by some guys, Our app will contain shortcut like volume up to get activate and it will start clicking photos and then it will be uploaded on our database ,also at same time local police can be informed that someone in problem and our AI Algorithm will file an automatic case against the harasser. Also, at the same time, a harasser profile will be created which displays number of crimes he has performed and if next time a woman goes to that particular area, she will be alerted and she can prepare herself. It will also benefit other women as this is based on community work and as the app community increases, a greater number of harassers’ profile would be created and will benefit us to understand the rating of a particular area. Based on that we can also suggest good staying places and the areas which are marked bad can be improved with help of local police and treating these people legally. Locals of that area can also be further involved in dealing with these harasser’s as when locals would know that particular person is a harasser, then they will be keeping an eye on him and if next time he would try to harass any women then the locals would deal with him before any legal action.

## App Working
The first screen would be registration activity where first-time user needs to register. Then the user will be reverted back to login screen.  After user logins, then the user needs to provide some personal information like DOB, Sex, Hobbies, Job Profile etc. After doing that, the user will be directed to main activity region where actual work is done.
The user gets to record a video, capture image. Actually, we will be giving automatic capture feature but for this demo purpose, it would be manual process. So, the photo would be uploaded to our backend servers where the face recognition algorithm would be filter out the harasser face and would return a prototype profile where the naming would be done with respect to area where this happened. If the user wants can file the complaint to local police station which would be detected automatically. And as the community grow, large database of good and bad area can be created with can be further analysed using R, Python to get insight of this area data to figure out which are more safe places to live. The safety % can only be calculated when we get some good database from a good community.


## Tech Stack
- MIT App inventor
- Basic Programming
- Facebook API
